README.rst, before:

EULFedora
=========


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eulfedora.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eulfedora

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/eulfedora.svg

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/eulfedora.svg


EULfedora is a `Python <http://www.python.org/>`_ module that provides
utilities, API wrappers, and classes for interacting with the
`Fedora-Commons Repository <http://fedora-commons.org/>`_
in a pythonic, object-oriented way, with optional
`Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ integration.  Current versions
of eulfedora are intended for use with Fedora Commons 3.7.x or 3.8.x, but
will likely work with earlier versions.  If you need support for an earlier
version of Fedora and the latest eulfedora does not work, you may have
success with the 1.0 release.

**eulfedora.api** provides complete access to the Fedora API,
primarily making use of Fedora's
`REST API <https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FCR30/REST+API>`_.  This
low-level interface is wrapped by **eulfedora.server.Repository** and
**eulfedora.models.DigitalObject**, which provide a more abstract,
object-oriented, and Pythonic way of interacting with a Fedora
Repository or with individual objects and datastreams.

**eulfedora.indexdata** provides a webservice that returns data for
fedora objects in JSON form, which can be used in conjunction with a
service for updating an index, such as `eulindexer`.

When used with `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_,
**eulfedora** can pull the Repository connection configuration from
Django settings, and provides a custom management command for loading
simple content models and fixture objects to the configured
repository.


Dependencies
------------

**eulfedora** currently depends on
`eulxml <https://github.com/emory-libraries/eulxml>`_,
`rdflib <http://www.rdflib.net/>`_,
`python-dateutil <http://labix.org/python-dateutil>`_,
`pycrypto <https://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/>`_,
`soaplib <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/soaplib/0.8.1>`_.

**eulfedora** can be used without
`Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_, but additional
functionality is available when used with Django.


Contact Information
-------------------

**eulfedora** was created by the Digital Programs and Systems Software
Team of `Emory University Libraries <http://web.library.emory.edu/>`_.

libsysdev-l@listserv.cc.emory.edu


License
-------
**eulfedora** is distributed under the Apache 2.0 License.


Development History
-------------------

For instructions on how to see and interact with the full development
history of **eulfedora**, see
`eulcore-history <https://github.com/emory-libraries/eulcore-history>`_.


Developer Notes
---------------

To install dependencies for your local check out of the code, run ``pip install``
in the ``eulfedora`` directory (the use of `virtualenv`_ is recommended)::

    pip install -e .

.. _virtualenv: http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/

If you want to run unit tests or build sphinx documentation, you will also
need to install development dependencies::

    pip install -e . "eulfedora[dev]"

Running the unit tests requires a Fedora Commons repository instance.  Before
running tests, you will need to copy ``test/localsettings.py.dist`` to
``test/localsettings.py`` and edit the configuration for your test repository.

To run all unit tests::


    nosetests test # for normal development
    nosetests test --with-coverage --cover-package=eulfedora --cover-xml --with-xunit   # for continuous integration

To run unit tests for a specific module or class, use syntax like this::

    nosetests test.test_fedora.test_api
    nosetests test.test_fedora:TestDigitalObject

To generate sphinx documentation::

    cd doc
    make html

Commit message:

Document django settings environment needed to run unit tests

README.rst, after:

EULFedora
=========


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/eulfedora.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/eulfedora

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/eulfedora.svg

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/eulfedora.svg


EULfedora is a `Python <http://www.python.org/>`_ module that provides
utilities, API wrappers, and classes for interacting with the
`Fedora-Commons Repository <http://fedora-commons.org/>`_
in a pythonic, object-oriented way, with optional
`Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ integration.  Current versions
of eulfedora are intended for use with Fedora Commons 3.7.x or 3.8.x, but
will likely work with earlier versions.  If you need support for an earlier
version of Fedora and the latest eulfedora does not work, you may have
success with the 1.0 release.

**eulfedora.api** provides complete access to the Fedora API,
primarily making use of Fedora's
`REST API <https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FCR30/REST+API>`_.  This
low-level interface is wrapped by **eulfedora.server.Repository** and
**eulfedora.models.DigitalObject**, which provide a more abstract,
object-oriented, and Pythonic way of interacting with a Fedora
Repository or with individual objects and datastreams.

**eulfedora.indexdata** provides a webservice that returns data for
fedora objects in JSON form, which can be used in conjunction with a
service for updating an index, such as `eulindexer`.

When used with `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_,
**eulfedora** can pull the Repository connection configuration from
Django settings, and provides a custom management command for loading
simple content models and fixture objects to the configured
repository.


Dependencies
------------

**eulfedora** currently depends on
`eulxml <https://github.com/emory-libraries/eulxml>`_,
`rdflib <http://www.rdflib.net/>`_,
`python-dateutil <http://labix.org/python-dateutil>`_,
`pycrypto <https://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/>`_,
`soaplib <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/soaplib/0.8.1>`_.

**eulfedora** can be used without
`Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_, but additional
functionality is available when used with Django.


Contact Information
-------------------

**eulfedora** was created by the Digital Programs and Systems Software
Team of `Emory University Libraries <http://web.library.emory.edu/>`_.

libsysdev-l@listserv.cc.emory.edu


License
-------
**eulfedora** is distributed under the Apache 2.0 License.


Development History
-------------------

For instructions on how to see and interact with the full development
history of **eulfedora**, see
`eulcore-history <https://github.com/emory-libraries/eulcore-history>`_.


Developer Notes
---------------

To install dependencies for your local check out of the code, run ``pip install``
in the ``eulfedora`` directory (the use of `virtualenv`_ is recommended)::

    pip install -e .

.. _virtualenv: http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/

If you want to run unit tests or build sphinx documentation, you will also
need to install development dependencies::

    pip install -e . "eulfedora[dev]"

Running the unit tests requires a Fedora Commons repository instance.  Before
running tests, you will need to copy ``test/localsettings.py.dist`` to
``test/localsettings.py`` and edit the configuration for your test repository.

To run the tests, you should set an environment variable of
**DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE** equal to ``testsettings.test`` or prefix
the nosetests command with ``env DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=testsettings.test``.

To run all unit tests::

    nosetests test # for normal development
    nosetests test --with-coverage --cover-package=eulfedora --cover-xml --with-xunit   # for continuous integration

To run unit tests for a specific module or class, use syntax like this::

    nosetests test.test_fedora.test_api
    nosetests test.test_fedora:TestDigitalObject

To generate sphinx documentation::

    cd doc
    make html
